# Poppin
Team 16

## Iteration 02

 * Start date: October 30, 2016
 * End date: November 14, 2016

## Process

### Roles & Responsibilities


__Noah (Front-end Developer and Video Editor)__:

* Setting up Cordova project for client-side development.
* Developing primary screens screens of the application.
* Creating and editing demo video.



__Anshay (Front-end Developer - Basic UI)__:

* Setting up dev environment on local machine and becoming familiar with basic application development using Cordova.
* Developing UI layout for *Create Event* page.

__Sajid (Back-end Developer and Facilitator)__:

 * Setting up NodeJS project for server side development.
 * Implementing RESTful APIs for user onboarding and authentication.
 * Writing automated [test scripts](../server_dev/test) for RESTful APIs.


__Darshan (Back-end Developer for *Nearyby Events* API)__:

 * Designing and implementing a RESTful API which provides a list of nearby events based on the user's GPS location.


__Kenneth (Backend Developer for *Event Details* API)__:

 * Developing a RESTful API which provides complete details about a given event.

__Andy (Backend Developer - Business Logic and Computation)__:

 * Implementing a RESTful API which creates an *event* entity based on a given set of *event details*.

<br>

### Events
We will be meeting on a regular basis to review progress and address outstanding tasks. Following is our meeting schedule (including some brief agenda). All meetings will take place online on Google Hangouts.

* __Sunday - October 30, 2016__
  * Create and finalize a complete plan for this iteration.

* __Wednesday - November 2, 2016__
  * Ensure both server side and client projects have been configured, and everyone has their local dev environment set up.

* __Saturday - November 5, 2016__
  * Review general progress and discuss any blockers or other issues / difficulties.

* __Tuesday - November 8, 2016__
  * Ensure all primary screens in client application has been implemented and the core RESTful APIs have been developed.

* __Friday - November 11, 2016__
  * Analyze preliminary version of demo video and identify potential improvements.

* __Monday - November 14, 2016__
 * Decide and agree upon a final version of the demo video that will be submitted with Deliverable 2.

* __Tuesday - November 16, 2016__
 * Review performance, achievements, and identify areas of improvement from this iteration.

 <br>

### Artifacts

Tasks which must be completed before preparing the demo video will be prioritized. Any other issues that are acting as *blockers* towards completing these tasks will be given higher priorities.

* [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/csc301-fall-2016/project-team-16/issues) will be used for formally defining tasks and assigning them to team memebers.

* [Waffle](https://waffle.io), which is a project management tool, will be used for measuring progress, efficiency, and keeping track of tasks and their priorities.

 Waffle integrates with GitHub Issues and organizes them as entries on a Kanban board. In order to be able to quantify effort, it allows us to assign a *size* to each entry, which can then be used to measure progress and throughput.
 
 * __Prioritization:__ Tasks will be ordered on the Kanban board based on their priority, with the highest priority tasks at the top of each column.
 
 * __Progress:__ The horizontal position of each task on the Kanban board will be used for evaluating progress. As with standard Kanban procedures, tasks will start on the left and shift through to the right in the following order, as they are worked upon and are eventually completed: *Backlog -> Ready -> In Progress -> Done*

 * __Efficiency:__ Weekly throughput charts will be used to measure efficiency. These graphs display the aggregated *size* of all tasks completed during each week, and are automatically generated by Waffle based on *closed* issues.

<br>
## Product

### Goals and tasks

*Ordered based on priority (from most to least)*

* __User Interface:__ Develop primary screens that are part of the main flow(s) of the application. These include:

 * __*Discover* page__ - which shows both a list and a map view of nearby events. This is the home screen of the application.

 * __*Create Event* page__ - which allows the user to create an event. Contains input fields for *event name*, *start date and time*, *end date and time*, *event description*, and a map interface for choosing the *location* of the event.

 * __*Event Details* page__ - which shows complete details about an event and allows the user to indicate their interest towards joining the event. Details for an event include all attributes mentioned above for the *Create Event* page.

 * __*Communities* page__ - which allows the user to create communities, as well as search for communities based on names.


* __RESTful APIs (with dummy data):__ Develop RESTful APIs (serving static dummy data) that are required to implement the core functionalities of our application. These APIs include:

 * __*Create Event*__ - creates an *event* entity based on the *event details* passed in the request body.

 * __*Get Nearby Events*__ - provides a list of nearby events based on the given GPS coordinates (i.e. longitude and latitude)

 * __*Get Event Details*__ - provides complete details about an event based on a given event id.

 * __*Sign Up*__ - onboards a new user by creating an account using the *name*, *username*, and *password* they have provided.

 * __*Sign In*__ - enables a user to log in to their account based on their *username* and *password*.


* __Demo Application__: Develop a working application that contains the above mentioned screens and is polished enough to be showcased in the demo video. Specific tasks include:

 * Making UI elements (such buttons and maps) interactive.
 * Ensuring proper and smooth navigation between different screens.

* __Demo Video__: Create a video that briefly illustrates the motivation behind our application and demonstrates its core features. Specific tasks include:

 * Preparing and writing out a concise script for the video.
 * Learning to operate a basic video editing software.
 * Recording the video and fine-tuning it for submission.

* __RESTful APIs (serving actual data)__: Integrate RESTful APIs with database server, and ensure real data (from the database) is being served by each of the APIs that were implemented using dummy data before. Explicit tasks include:

 * Writing a SQL script for creating the schema based on the [schema design](designs/schema_design_v1.md).
 * Writing appropriate SQL queries for querying / modifying data.
 * Adding any business logic required to further process the data.


<br>
### Artifacts

* __UI Screens:__ Upload device screenshots of all the screens that have been completed into the [screenshots](iteration2-artifacts/screenshots) directory in our Git repository.

* __RESTful APIs__: Ensure __both__ set of tests (one expecting dummy data and the other expecting actual data) in [RESTful APIs tests](../server_dev/test) are passing without any errors or warnings. Upload the test results as two separate `.txt` files (one for each of the test collections) into [REST-API-Test-Results](iteration2-artifacts/REST-API-Tests) directory.

* __Demo Application__: Upload a working and stable application (Android or iOS) that can be installed and run on a physical device. This build should include the following screens according to the specifications mentioned under *Goals and Tasks* above: *Discover*, *Create Event*, *Event Details*, *Communities*. The application file (`.apk` or `.ipa`) is to be uploaded in the [iteration2-artifacts](iteration2-artifacts) directory.

* __Demo Video__: Upload a demo video in the [iteration2-artifacts](iteration2-artifacts) directory that meets the following requirements:

  * Total length is maximum 3 minutes (can be 5-6 seconds longer / shorter).
  * The narration is clear and audible.
  * Includes subtitles or text that highlights keywords.
  * Contains an introduction of about 30-45 seconds giving the audience some context about what our application addresses / solves.
  * Demonstrates the product by presenting the most common user flow(s) -  (roughly between 1.5 and 2 minutes).
  * Concludes the demo by summarizing what was presented and a brief discussion about our plans ahead - (roughly between 30 and 45 seconds).