# Iteration 2 Planning Meeting

## October 30, 2016

### Agenda

* Discuss and finalize a concrete goal for this iteration.

* Assign tasks and set deadlines for the following, which are to be completed before our next meeting:

 * Developing and completing the main screens (front-end); Specifically identify which screens are to be completed before the next meeting.

 * Setting up the project and configuring dependencies for the backend. This includes having a basic server running and setting up a database instance.

 * Creating the primary web APIs for components such as sign up / sign in. The exact APIs and their contracts are going to be identified during the meeting.
 


### Meeting Notes

* __Goal for this iteration__: Implement the basic / primary features of the product. This includes:
 * Sign in / sign up / sign out functionalities.
 * Viewing Events
 * Creating Events
 * Ability to join / show interest for an event
 * Implementing all the necessary RESTful APIs, and building mobile application, to support the above features

* __Required RESTful APIs and their request / response formats have been finalized.__ Sajid to add the contracts on Git. 

* __Task Assignments__ for the first part of this iteration have been completed. Tasks for each team member is listed below under Action Items. As agreed during the meeting, these tasks are to be completed before 6:00 PM on Wednesday, November 2nd.

### Action Items

__Noah__: Create the following screens of the client app:

* Sign in / Sign Up
* Home / Discover events (i.e. one that contains the map of events)
* Interests (shown when the user is signing up)
* Event (shows details / info about an event)
* Create Event (if time permits)

__Sajid__: Set up the server project and implement the primary APIs. This includes:

* Adding the necessary dependencies
* Creating the basic structure such that it allows the separation of components and achieves modularization
* Implement the SigIn / SignUp API
* Create and post the web API contracts on Git

__Kenneth__: Implement the following web APIs:

* GetEvent (This returns all related information about an event based on the event id). Exact details are available in Git repo.

__Andy__: Implement the following web APIs:

* CreateEvent (This will create a new instance of an event based on all the information provided as a part of the request). Exact details are available in Git repo.

__Darshan__: Implement the following web APIs:

* GetNearbyEvents (This returns a lists of all nearby events based on the users GPS coordinates and their interests). Exact details are available in Git repo.

__Anshay__: Nothing assigned as of now.



#### __Next meeting__:  November 2, Wednesday at 6:00 PM